## Overview
| **Location**          |     |
| --------------------- | --- |
| **Date**              |     |
| **Duration**          |     |
| **Cause**             |     |
| **Responsible party** |     |
| **Outcome**           |     |
Across the many planes, the fabric of reality is under tremendous strain. Sometimes this cosmic strain twists and tweaks the rules under which the planes operate. Though small compared to a single infinite plane, these anomalies can change the local landscape drastically.
## Types of Anomalies
Detailed timeline or sequence of events leading up to, during, and after the event.
### Outpocketing
Sometimes planar borders bulge and stretch, forming an outpocket, a bulge onto another plane. Outpockets are discrete areas, visible as transparent walls or bubbles on the affected plane. In a way, an outpocket is like a portal, though it's often larger. A traveler inside an outpocket can see features beyond, but they are blurred and indistinct, as if viewed through running water. Some outpockets are stable, and others may slowly shrink or grow over time.
Characters can move through an outpocket wall; the wall's resistance is only as strong as moderate wind. Once through the wall, the conditions on the new plane apply. Outpockets usually only occur between planes that are coterminous or coexistant, although some outpockets are bulges from parallel versions of the original plane. Such outpockets can reveal possible futures, distant pasts, or barely recognizable presents.
### Nested Pockets
Sometimes outpockets form in groups, each pocket nested inside another and connected to a different plane. Thus, they are sometimes called nested planes or nested realities. The walls between nested pockets may look like standard outpockets, or may be invisible. Either way, passing through the boundary is as easy as walking into the wind. In this way, a simple copse of trees could hold nested pockets - whole worlds reachable through deeper and deeper outpockets.
### Minor Planar Bleed
Sometimes the traits of one plane can affect a small region of another plane, even without a portal or vortex connecting the two planes. This is particularly likely between two coexistant planes, but it also possible between coterminous planes. Planar bleed usually affects no more than a single room, structure, or cavern, or at most a few square miles.
Minor planar bleeds superimpose one trait from a plane onto another. For instance, on a plane with normal gravity, an area with minor planar bleed might have no gravity because of a coexistant plane with that trait. Such planar bleeds can be dangerous, because the planar bleed area isn't always obvious until characters are inside it.
Some minor planar bleeds are even more subtle; their only effect is on the dreams of those who sleep nearby. For instance, characters traveling along a dry sea bottom might camp in a gully for the night and have dreams of a wide, glittering ocean. The dreams are harmless, merely a result of minor planar bleed from a coexistant alternate [[Prime|Material Plane]] on which the sea never dried up.
### Major Planar Bleed
Like minor planar bleed, major planar bleed involves seepage from one plane to another in the absence of a vortex or portal. Major planar bleed is usually confined to a region no larger than several square miles. It has all the effects of minor planar bleed, inclusing the overlap of a planar trait. But actual creatures and objects seep through from one plane to anotehr despite the absence of a portal or vortex. Even structures, small cities, and landscapes can seep from one plane to another.
#### Thar
The legendary trade city of Thar constantly moves from plane to plane. It accomplishes this task by magically inducing a major planar bleed around the city from time to time, following carefully planned mapped planar stress-points where less power is needed to induce the bleed. Thar contains citizens from nearly every race and plane, and it's widely varying and flamboyant architecture reflects its mixed heritage. The city, ruled by three rival merchant guilds, is rich with cross-planar trade. Travelers who tarry too long in Thar risk being swept away as the city seeps onto yet another plane.
### Planar Rips
Planar rips are holes in existence - holes that want filling. A planar rip stresses the fabric of coterminous and coexistant planes, and the hole starts to consume the plane's edges. In time, a planar rip can irrevocably swallow entire portions of a plane. Once a planar rip has momentum, it is difficult to reverse the fall of a coexistant plane, though only part of a coterminous plane will be affected.
On a coexistant plane being engulfed by a planar rip, storms of ever-increasing severity are common within fifty miles of the rip, storms of ever-increasing severity are common within fifty miles of the rip. Within a one-mile radius, a physical embodiment of the planar rip is visible: a whirlpool sucking up reality itself and swirling nearby matter into a night-dark aperture a few hundred feet in diameter.
Some planar rips form when a plane is subject to massive energies concentrated in a very small area. The planes are robust, and almost every instance of great energy or magic use leaves them none the worse for wear. But sometimes planes break, and the result is a planar rip. Other planar rips may be permanent connections to [[Mortis]], and still others are remnant time lines negated by temporal paradox or mortals experimenting with time travel. Planar rips can be tombstones marking extinguished planes, or they can lead to entire new cosmologies yet unborn.
#### Gap to Might Have Been
The manifest destiny of the evil illithidsy, as they see it, is to control the multiverse and all that inhabit it. Once they had such an empire, but it slipped through their fingers ages ago, and it now nothing but ashes.
Or is it? The illithids have built a miles-wide structure around a distant planar rip. Powerful lances of magic siphoned from suns cycle within the ring before discharging into the maw of nothingness. The illithids intend to turn the planar rip inside out, reversing its polarity and restoring their empire. Illithid researchers have identified a what-if cosmology where their interplanar empire never perished. So far, the [[Mind Flayer|mind flayers]] have failed to reverse the planar rip. But illithids are nothing if not tenacious.
### Time Loops
Time loops are rare - thankfully, because being captured in a time loop is to be lost to the rest of the universe. Within a time loop, the history of a certain structure, ship, or region of landscape repeats over andover, never failing to jump back to the same previous point in the region's history. Creatures caught up in a time loop rarely recognize their fate or realize that they're repeating the same actions over and over again. From their perspective, each time through the time loop is the first time.
When a time loop forms, the affected structure or region is somehow separated from the surrounding plane, either forming its own small demiplane or an outpocket. Some time loops may be wholly impregnable, without entrance or exit, but others allow visitors to enter via a translucent planar boundary. However, if visitors are unable to resolve the origin of the time loop, they too will be incorporated into the time loop, doomed to repeat their entry into it again and again.
Time loops form when magic or other concentrated energy is released in a wild, uncontrolled fashion in just the right way. Even so, time loops happen so rarely that some sages dismiss them as idle tales. But in an infinite multiverse, such time loops do indeed happen.
The only way to end a time loop and return the area back to its original plane is to prevent the release of the wild energy that catalyzed the time loop in the first place. Thus, visitors have a chance of doing so, because they enter a time loop with some knowledge of the truth. But sometimes longtime participants retain snatches of memory between restarts, allowing them to alter their behaviour enough over successive repetitions to finally avert the catastrophe.
### Time Wrinkle
When the fabric of a plane is stretched or compressed locally, it may become "wrinkled." A time wrinkle normally affects only a small portion of plane, such as a single lake, structure, or cavern, though it can encompass a larger region.
A time wrinkle is an area where time passes at a different rate than on the rest of the plane. Most often, time runs more slowly in a time wrinkle than on the surrounding plane. Inhabitants of a region that possesses a time wrinkle regard it as a natural feature, avoiding it much as others would avoid a difficult mountain range. Passing through the outskirts of a time wrinkle could cost a traveler hours or days, while striking through the heart of a wrinkle could cost years, relative to the surrounding plane.
This is not to say that areas affected by time wrinkles are lifeless. Plant and animal life that flourished millions of years ago may be common in a large time wrinkle. Lost races, monsters, and whole civilizations might still call a time wrinkle home. But explorers who want to explore the past must forget the present and forsake the future - they'll return from their journey to find their own lives are but distant memories.