---
aliases: Foundation, E1
tags: History/Era
---
In the beginning, [[the All-Creator]] gazed upon the vast expanse of universes, witnessing the result of Its own craftsmanship. And as the cosmos awaited the breath of life, the All-Creator spoke forth, filling the emptiness with varieties of unique creatures.<br>
The first to emerge into being were the [[Primordials]], the very essences of the [[Elemental Planes]] given form and sentience. They were not merely inhabitants of their planes but reflections of them, simultaneously shaped by and shaping their elemental homes.<br>
The most powerful of the Primordials came to be known as the [[Archomentals]]. The Archomentals, once the multiverse would start developing an axis of morality, would eventually divide into two categories, Princes of Good and Princes of Evil.<br>
Soon after the Primordials came the [[Titans]], grand ancestors of the [[Giants]] who towered above all else, their feet planted firmly on the [[First World]], a realm still untouched by time.<br>
The Titan-folk, with eyes that sparkled like the stars, raised colossal monuments and citadels, reflecting their grandeur and paying homage to the All-Creator. Amidst the mountains and valleys, they sang songs of the dawn of time, echoing through the vastness of the First World.<br>
Following the Titans, the Elder Beasts arose next, titanic creatures born to roam the vast landscapes of the First World. [[Behemoths]], great lumbering giants of the land, moved with earth-shaking steps. [[Leviathans]], lords of the deep, danced gracefully through the depths of the oceans. And soaring above all were the [[Ababils]], monarchs of the endless skies, their wings casting shadows over continents.<br>
With the act of creation complete, the All-Creator withdrew to a divine vantage, casting an ever-watchful eye over the multiverse. The divine tapestry of life had been woven, and the All-Creator would remain an eternal observer, a silent guardian, as Its creations played out their destinies in the grand theater of existence.